[THEME MUSIC]
>>GEORGE NOORY: Welcome
to "Beyond Belief."
I'm George Noory.
What you're about
to hear and see
may be one of the most
dramatic, controversial aspects
of "Beyond Belief"
we have ever had.
It deals with what
very well could
be an extraterrestrial
presence, maybe.
Jaime Maussan is with us.
Jaime is an investigator.
He is a journalist.
He's based out of Mexico City.
And controversy surrounds
your life, Jaime.
Welcome to the program.
>>JAIME MAUSSAN:
Thank you, George.
>>NOORY: Tell me a little bit
more about your background.
>>MAUSSAN: Well,
I'm a journalist.
I have been a television--
an investigative journalist
for the last 45
years of my life.
I've been working with the
most important journalists
in the television in Mexico.
I became reporter, then
anchor, and finally director
of "60 minutes" in
Mexico for 17 years.
I am director and host
of "Tercer Milenio"
for the last 20 years.
This show presents
different investigations
related to science, archeology,
astronomy, and even the UFO
phenomenon.
>>NOORY: Controversy,
Jaime, surrounds you.
Back many years ago, there
was a discovery in Colorado
by an archaeologist, by an
archaeologist named Palmer,
who is no longer with us.
But he found some kind of a
creature, or entity, or body.
Tell us what you think he found
and then the controversy that
surrounds you.
>>MAUSSAN: OK, he found
a very small body,
a little child, 29
inches long, according
to the documents we have.
And we have even a picture
of the moment of the finding.
And this body doesn't
fit with the picture
I received to investigate and
present it later on in Mexico.
They are two different bodies.
But people in the US,
especially the Ufologists,
tried to match
both cases, saying
that the body that
I presented belongs
to the finding of Palmer.
But I can prove it
with these images
that these are two different
things, two different bodies.
>>NOORY: Because you contend
that what Palmer found
and what you have been working
on are two different entities.
>>MAUSSAN: Absolutely.
The picture I
presented in Mexico
was analyzed and investigated by
many experts in Canada, Richard
Double; in Mexico, Jose
de Jesus Zalce, who
is the forensic expert
of the Navy in Mexico.
The National Institute
of Forensic Science
also analyzed this body.
And all of them told me that
this body has so many anomalies
to be considered human.
>>NOORY: Now the smaller body
that Palmer had discovered,
the 29-inch body, where is that?
Were you ever able to
physically see that?
>>MAUSSAN: No.
Unfortunately, no.
And probably that's
the reason people used
that to attack the other case.
For law now in
the United States,
all the bodies from mummies
from the Native Indians
had to be buried.
Then this body is
not longer with us,
has been buried somewhere.
>>NOORY: Someplace.
>>MAUSSAN: And I don't
know where it is.
And that's the reason I
cannot analyze that body.
However, the picture
I have was analyzed,
and we found so many anomalies.
For example, it
doesn't have a wrist.
It doesn't have an elbow.
It has just six ribs here.
The clavicle is
connected to the ribs.
And it doesn't have a hip.
It doesn't have a knee.
And I still believe that
what I presented in Mexico
is something that is nonhuman.
Can I say this
comes from Roswell?
I can't.
I cannot prove that.
Can I say this is
extraterrestrial?
Probably I was wrong.
I can't.
But what I can say,
this is not human,
because there are
so many anomalies.
A little boy couldn't
survive with all of those.
>>NOORY: So the 29-inch body
and the 47-inch body are gone.
>>MAUSSAN: Are gone, both.
There is nothing else
to investigate there
unfortunately, George.
But where we can investigate,
and we have been doing that,
is with the Nazca bodies.
Because now we have
physical evidence, evidence
that is being tested, has
been tested for carbon 14,
has been tested for DNA--
not right now.
We're waiting for the results.
We have X-rays.
We have CAT scans.
And we have so much.
We have the physical evidence.
>>NOORY: Well, this
is an amazing story.
It's a story that has gone all
around the planet right now,
thanks to you, thanks to Gaia.
>>MAUSSAN: Yes.
>>NOORY: And I want
people who are not
familiar with this story to
understand a little bit more
about these Nazca mummies.
>>MAUSSAN: We were
supposed to see
one of the most important
discovery of the 21st century.
>> Nazca, Peru, home of
one of the most mysterious
archaeological sites on Earth.
A new mystery has emerged
from this remote location,
and it takes us from what
we see above the ground
to what lies below.
>>NOORY: Of course,
that is a special report
that Gaia is presenting.
It is very important for people
to understand that this is
the region where Erich Von
Daniken wrote his award-winning
story of the "Chariots
of the Gods,"
the Nazca Lines in Peru--
>>MAUSSAN: That is correct.
>>NOORY: --where you
can only decipher what
these objects are from above.
>>MAUSSAN: Exactly.
>>NOORY: You can see spiders--
>>NOORY: --and birds.
But you have no idea what they
are when you're on the ground.
And that, of course, was the
beginning of Eric's theories
that we have been visited
by extraterrestrials
from some other
system, of some place.
>>MAUSSAN: What is
very interesting is
that this mummy, Maria,
is 1,750 years old.
It's the exact same
timing that the scientists
have given to the Nazca Lines.
>>NOORY: Interesting take.
>>MAUSSAN: It's a coincidence.
>>NOORY: Interesting.
Now, I want you to tell us, what
was that white chalky material
that we saw in that picture
that seems to be enveloped
all over this body?
>>MAUSSAN: We didn't
know what it was.
It was funny, because we
have never found mummies
with that kind of material.
And we found, after analyzing
this in a laboratory
here in the United States, that
it's diatomaceous earth, which
is a--
>>NOORY: It's a powdery
substance that the planet has.
It is used for a number
of things, including
filtration for water systems.
>>MAUSSAN: Exactly, and
insecticide, and also
fungicide.
This compound also
desiccates the bodies.
If you have an insect and it's
trapped by this diatomaceous,
it completely dries the body.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>MAUSSAN: And
that's why we think--
>>NOORY: It just about
lasts forever, right?
>>MAUSSAN: That's why we think
that these bodies were buried
into that kind of material.
It's a phytoplankton
from the past.
It's a fossilized plant--
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>MAUSSAN: --microplant.
And it has all those properties.
>>NOORY: It's like a
preservative, isn't it?
>>MAUSSAN: Exactly.
Exactly.
Look at the body and look
at the face of this Maria.
The face is like you
have never seen before.
Check all the mummies
you want, and you
will see that this is one of
the best preserved mummies ever.
>>NOORY: Describe
the body for us,
Jaime, for people
who'd looked at,
who got a quick, quick glimpse.
I noticed three fingers
and things like that.
But tell us exactly what you--
>>MAUSSAN: Well, we
we're able to reconstruct
the body with experts, and what
they found is very interesting.
The arms were very, very
strong, like a gorilla's arms,
and they were longer
than human arms.
They also-- the face--
the face is like
the Homo habilis,
one of the Homo species from
the past that disappeared
1,600,000 years ago.
>>NOORY: My gosh.
>>MAUSSAN: And it has
the elongated head.
It doesn't have ears,
and no hair, completely,
and many other anomalies.
If you look at that creature,
it had to be terrifying.
>>NOORY: Oh my gosh.
>>MAUSSAN: Had to be something--
>>NOORY: Well, and
it seems to match
the description of alien greys
or the praying mantis type.
>>MAUSSAN: Yeah, but very
similar to humans too.
We have to understand that too.
And probably the biggest
detail, the biggest example,
that this is not human are
the three long fingers--
>>NOORY: Three fingers.
>>MAUSSAN: --in the
hands and the feet.
>>NOORY: It has
no thumb, does it?
>>MAUSSAN: No, it
doesn't have a thumb.
They said, the skeptics
said, that we cut the fingers
and we put phalanges
into these fingers.
This is something
impossible to do.
We took also the skin and
muscle from the fingers,
and we tested it.
And it's as old, they
are as old, as the body.
It means that we haven't
touched those fingers.
Also, it has fingerprints.
Our fingerprints are like this--
spiral.
Their fingerprints are linear,
horizontal, very different
than us.
And there are so many
similitudes and anomalies.
For example, inside the body you
can find the heart, the lungs,
the stomach and the intestines.
>>NOORY: Should
be easy to analyze
once they get into this.
>>MAUSSAN: Yes, of course,
but we need real experts.
We need to take
them out of Peru,
into an international
institution, multidisciplinary.
And that way we will be able
to really find what it is.
>>NOORY: How many creatures
have they discovered out there?
>>MAUSSAN: OK, we have
two different species.
We have two of one kind--
Maria.
They're very humanlike.
And a little baby, probably
less than one-year-old.
And it has three fingers, also
very similar to the big one.
>>NOORY: OK, just
a smaller version.
>>MAUSSAN: We have that.
And we have six other
bodies of small creatures,
60 centimeters, which are
more related to reptiles.
One of them has three eggs
inside the body, still.
>>NOORY: Eggs?
>>MAUSSAN: Eggs.
>>NOORY: How big are
the eggs, couple inches?
>>MAUSSAN: No well--
no, probably one inch.
If we consider the size of
the body, probably one inch.
>>NOORY: Can the eggs
be analyzed as well?
>>MAUSSAN: With a very good
team of scientists, yes.
>>NOORY: So you found a couple
humanoid-looking mummies--
>>MAUSSAN: Exactly.
>>NOORY:
--reptilian-looking mummies.
>>MAUSSAN: Six.
We have six bodies of
reptilians, six bodies that
can be analyzed.
>>NOORY: Do they have a tail?
>>MAUSSAN: No, they
don't have a tail.
But the face is very
similar, let's say, probably
to a turtle.
And the neck is retractable
like the turtles.
And we think there
is some relation
with that kind of creatures.
>>NOORY: Did it walk upright?
>>MAUSSAN: Yes, absolutely.
And it had three fingers too,
and one bone in the arms,
one bone in the legs.
>>NOORY: Would you consider
that reptilian figure
to be animal or more human?
>>MAUSSAN: They look
to be intelligent.
And they were buried with the
others in a very sacred place
in the top of a mountain.
At the beginning, the man
who found them lied to us.
And he said that he had
found them in a tomb.
Now, we know that is not true.
>>NOORY: Where were they found?
>>MAUSSAN: They were
found on the top
of a mountain, inside a cave,
full of diatomaceous earth.
>>NOORY: And how
were they laid out?
Do you know?
>>MAUSSAN: They were buried.
>>NOORY: They were buried.
>>MAUSSAN: Yeah, well, we
don't, because unfortunately
this, the way it was found,
was completely illegal.
I mean, these people look
for these kind of bodies
to sell them.
And what we tried to do was
to stop this from being sold.
But it's very unfortunate
that Peru and the world
are losing these precious--
>>NOORY: Have you gotten some
samples from these creatures?
>>MAUSSAN: Yes.
The samples are being
analyzed for DNA.
I believe we are
going to have them
ready in the next few weeks.
They are now being analyzed
in Russia, United States,
and in Mexico.
And when we have the three
results and we can match them,
if all of them come
with the same answer,
it's going to be very
difficult now to discredit.
>>NOORY: And we have
some initial DNA results.
>> Professor Korotkov and
his team have discovered that
the strange creature is female.
>> They were able
to extract DNA.
They confirmed that this
is female, because there
was only X strands.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> From the DNA samples of
the mummy now known as Maria,
we were able to identify
that this is a woman,
as the Y chromosome is missing.
>> The team also confirmed,
in the DNA process,
a strange herbal smell
that came from the sample.
Some experts suggest that it
came from the mummification
process.
But the question still
remains, was this creature
preserved by humans
or nonhumans?
>>NOORY: What an
amazing discovery
and how exciting that will be
when these results come out.
Explain to me the position
that the body was found in.
It looks as if it died in
some kind of cradle position.
>>MAUSSAN: No, I think that--
>>NOORY: What happened?
>>MAUSSAN: It's
the same position
that we find in many mummies.
I believe it was
buried by humans.
And once this body died,
before it got still,
they put this position to
bury that in a sacred way.
>>NOORY: They moved the body
into that kind of position?
>>MAUSSAN: Exactly.
>>NOORY: I want you,
Jaime, to speculate,
and this is all speculation,
on 1,700 years ago when
these creatures are
roaming the planet.
What might have been going on?
Did they get here through
extraterrestrial craft?
Were they born on this planet?
What do you think happened?
>>MAUSSAN: It's a
very good question,
very difficult to answer.
Well, can I tell you this?
If the small body from a baby,
it comes from the big body--
if they both are related, it
means they were born on earth.
It means they were living here.
It means they were
here for a long time.
And they-- some of them had
relatives, or kids, or family.
It means that--
>>NOORY: There was a
population of them.
>>MAUSSAN: Exactly.
Exactly.
>>NOORY: Could they have been
always from this planet, maybe?
>>MAUSSAN: We haven't
found anything
like this in any other place.
I think for some
reason they came.
I don't know where
they came from.
I cannot tell you
if they are ETs.
I think they are-- what
I can say right now--
they are nonhuman.
That--
>>NOORY: That you believe.
>>MAUSSAN: --can be proven.
It's going to be more
difficult to prove that they
are extraterrestrials.
But sooner or
later, somebody has
to have this answer
where they came from,
because I don't think they
are originally from here.
However, as I told
you, Homo habilis
is very-- it looks
like this creature.
It means that probably
they were here before
and they changed our species.
And our species is
different because of them.
Probably our history
is more related to them
than we ever thought about that.
>>NOORY: Might have they been
left behind for some reason?
Let's go back to Erich
Von Daniken's work
the "Chariot of the Gods," and
we look at the Nazca Lines.
And as you have
just mentioned, it's
the same time period that
these creatures were there.
So let's assume for a moment
that the Nazca Lines were made
by extraterrestrials
or by humans
to honor the extraterrestrials
and that these creatures were
left behind for some reason.
>>MAUSSAN: Yeah,
it's a possibility.
Nobody can say that is not true.
Probably they were trying
to attract their attention.
I don't know.
I mean, you can speculate
a lot about that.
But the only real answer is that
they were here, and they were--
>>NOORY: They've
been discovered.
>>MAUSSAN: --living with humans.
They were living with humans.
They were close
to a civilization
that has many mysteries.
Peru is amazing.
Peru has so many mysteries.
>>NOORY: Oh my gosh, yeah.
>>MAUSSAN: And it's so old.
They just found this
city Huaca Prieta.
Huaca Prieta's
15,000 years old--
>>NOORY: And they just found it.
>>MAUSSAN: --proven.
And just found it.
It means that there
is so much more.
>>NOORY: Are these
creatures being investigated
by other areas of Peru?
Universities?
Anything like that?
>>MAUSSAN: From the
very first moment,
the archaeologists in
Peru rejected the finding.
Even though they hadn't seen
it, they have not seen anything,
they say this is fake.
And it's something
really incredible.
Many people are
saying this is a fake.
Well, present me
one evidence that
proves that this is a fake.
>>NOORY: If it's a
fake, if it's a fake,
what would it be made
out of, and when would it
have been done?
>>MAUSSAN: I don't know.
>>NOORY: 1,700 years ago?
>>MAUSSAN: It had to be,
because the fingers are
as old as the body.
You think somebody could
do that 1,700 years ago?
>>NOORY: I don't think so.
And why?
Why would you make
little reptilians?
Why would you make humanoids?
>>MAUSSAN: Why somebody
would do it now?
I mean, there is no
reason behind all of this.
>>NOORY: It is earth-shattering
if the truth comes out
and the DNA backs up what
you believe it could be.
>>MAUSSAN: History
will have to change.
Just imagine.
It means that all
those mysteries
that we have from the past--
the pyramids, and the
cities, and the big blocks--
everything will
have an explanation.
Then we will have
to change history,
and we will have to
become more humble.
We will have to accept,
probably, that we are not alone
and we have never been alone.
>>NOORY: I know
Gaia has received
millions of hits on
the videos for people
who are interested in this.
Have you been approached
by scientists or anybody
like that who has also
sparked some interest?
>>MAUSSAN: Yes, there
are big institutions
working on this case secretly.
We cannot disclose anything,
because they would retract from
the case.
Then we have to wait.
>>NOORY: But
something's going on.
>>MAUSSAN: Something
is going on.
And there are some scientists
who want to participate.
But everyone is afraid,
because they could be--
>>NOORY: Ridiculed.
>>MAUSSAN: --discredited.
They could be affected by this.
And that's the reason
there is not really
an objective investigation
behind all of this.
>>NOORY: Well, there should be.
Isn't science's
role to discover?
And that discovery
could be, it's real.
It's not.
But let's get the answer.
>>MAUSSAN: That's what I think.
Why in this case,
science believes
this is a hoax without one
single evidence of that?
We have presented
the carbon 14 test.
We have presented the X-rays.
We have presented the CAT scans.
We have-- we're
trying to do the DNA.
We have some results from DNA.
But we need the
sequences and so on.
We are trying to do
the scientific work,
and they are trying to
discredit this with no evidence.
>>NOORY: Jaime, where
are the mummies now?
Where are they?
>>MAUSSAN: The mummies are
in a hidden place in Cuzco.
They are on the possession
of the man who found them.
Or wherever-- we have
been able-- every time
we ask them that we want to
see or we want to investigate,
they have allowed us to get in
touch with the evidences again.
>>NOORY: Who owns the mummies?
>>MAUSSAN: A man named Mario.
>>NOORY: Now, does
the country of Peru,
do they claim that they own it?
>>MAUSSAN: Legally, yes.
Legally, they should
belong to Peru.
However, if they are not
human, if they were not
found in a sacred place but
in a cave, they are different.
They are not exactly,
strictly, forbidden by the law.
They could say, oh,
they were found in Peru.
They belong to Peru.
But it's not the same
like a traditional mummy
or a traditional treasure.
>>NOORY: So this
individual has them.
>>MAUSSAN: Yes.
>>NOORY: The DNA
samples are being done.
>>MAUSSAN: Yes.
>>NOORY: Are DNA
samples being done just
on the female creature
or all of them?
>>MAUSSAN: In all of them.
>>NOORY: All of them.
>>MAUSSAN: All of them.
>>NOORY: So the reptilians--
>>MAUSSAN: In both species.
Remember, two species,
because nobody
talks about the reptilians,
because there is no way
to attack the reptilians.
>>NOORY: How did this
entire story and event
come to you in the first place?
>>MAUSSAN: Back in the
month of March 2017,
somebody, one of the
people who worked
with me in the
original case in Mexico
said, Jaime, I
saw some creatures
that have some similitudes with
the creature we saw in Mexico.
He said, you should see that.
Then I got in touch with Thierry
Jamin, a French archaeologist
that works in Peru.
And I asked him if he could
present me the evidence
like he did.
I made an interview to him.
And then I said--
I asked if I could go to Peru.
He allowed me to do that.
Then I got in touch with
Gaia, and I asked Gaia
if they wanted to
participate in this.
And they told me yes.
They wanted to participate.
And that's how everything
begun at the end of the--
in the month of April.
>>NOORY: You were talking about
Reptilians that were discovered
with the other two mummies.
>>MAUSSAN: Yes.
>>NOORY: A Dr. Edson
Salazar was one of those who
was observing these creatures.
>>INTERPRETER: Oh, look.
Look.
Look at this cool
feature that it has here.
This is a really
important feature.
Do we have some tweezers?
No, no, no, no.
I don't want to cut it, but
I want you to see this here.
This here comes from the
little tubular fibers.
And here is another.
It has a thick, compact
fiber, like a packet
of vascular nerves.
They fulfill the
anatomical characteristics.
If this were a fraud
or were put together,
whoever did this definitely
had a very broad knowledge
of anatomy.
And at the same time, he
must've been an artisan
with a unique skill or ability.
To get this, for example,
these anatomical details that I
can assess, these
microfibers here,
what would apparently be tendons
or ligaments, you can see them.
This right here is the little
fibers and these two here.
Here's one, and
here's the other.
They're like arteries
or something like that.
>>NOORY: How exciting.
I can't wait to get the results.
>>MAUSSAN: You see, they
are organic, completely.
They were not made.
They are not toys.
This is real.
>>NOORY: And the
story won't end--
if they're not real
for some reason,
the story doesn't end
there, because then you
have to try to decipher,
why were these made?
What was the purpose?
Especially if it were
done a long time ago.
And as the good doctor was
pointing out, whoever did
make them, if they were made,
understood anatomy very well.
>>MAUSSAN: Who did
that, the huaqueros?
People that almost don't--
>>NOORY: Would they have
had that kind of knowledge?
>>MAUSSAN: --how
to read and write?
You know?
I mean, it's impossible.
If this was-- if
this was done, it
was done by an expert, one of
the best experts in the world.
Where is he?
On the contrary, if
they're proven to be real,
the story doesn't end
here, because we need now
go back and try to understand
everything from the past,
considering that these
creatures were real.
That's what is the most
amazing part of this history.
>>NOORY: Jaime, do we have any
idea how these creatures died?
>>MAUSSAN: No, that's
another very good question.
But we don't know how they
died, because they are not hurt.
Nothing happened to them.
>>NOORY: There's no
marks, stabbings--
>>MAUSSAN: No.
No.
>>NOORY: --nothing like that?
They weren't
sacrificed or anything?
>>MAUSSAN: No.
That's a very good question,
because I have never
even thought about that.
>>NOORY: There could
be some disease in them
for all we know.
Who knows, right?
>>MAUSSAN: Probably because
something happened to them
on Earth, you know?
>>NOORY: Something happened.
>>MAUSSAN: Yeah,
something happened.
>>NOORY: And explain the
difference between the mummies
and the reptilians.
They seem to have
coexisted together.
>>MAUSSAN: Yes.
>>NOORY: Yet they were
different creatures.
>>MAUSSAN: Yes.
>>NOORY: What do you
think their roles were?
>>MAUSSAN: They
were very similar,
because each one of
them had three fingers.
That's the similitude
between the big ones
and the small ones.
Other than that, they
are completely different.
And even with the
bones in the arms,
the humanlike have
two bones in here.
The reptilians have
one bone in here.
And they've-- everything
else is different.
>>NOORY: So it
complicates it and even
makes it even more
mystical of course
are the fact that we're
looking at two creatures.
>> Carbon dating taken from the
samples of Victoria indicated
that the age was between
987 AD to 1145 AD,
which makes her over 700
years younger than Maria.
>>WEIDNER: I want to
stress something here.
These are completely
different species
even though they both share
many, many characteristics--
three-fingered hands and feet,
and longer legs, longer arms.
But they do not appear
to be the same species.
>>MAUSSAN: I think
this is going to be
a big challenge for
science and scientists
to really explain all of this.
And right now,
what we have to do
is to focus in the incredible
features of these bodies,
and then probably try
to relate them, and try
to probably, through
them, solve some
of the big mysteries of history.
>>NOORY: Is it possible, Jaime,
that these creatures roamed
the planet all over the
place, not just Peru?
>>MAUSSAN: We haven't found
them in any other place.
However, we know there
are paintings in Egypt.
There are paintings in Mexico.
There are some evidences that
prove that people saw something
very similar in those places.
But we haven't found them.
However, now that
we know that they
were buried in
these kind of caves,
we should look carefully in
other places in the world.
>>NOORY: Yes.
>>MAUSSAN: Probably,
they are buried
in the same kind of deposits.
>>NOORY: There could be
hundreds or thousands of these--
>>MAUSSAN: Probably.
>>NOORY: Mummies everywhere.
>>MAUSSAN: I mean, there
is so much more to come.
This is just the beginning.
This is the tip of the iceberg.
>>NOORY: Of everything you've
investigated in your career,
where would you rate this?
>>MAUSSAN: Number one.
This is the most
fascinating story
because we have
physical evidence.
And it's going to be
very, very difficult
to discredit on the long run.
Right now, some people
think, some experts think,
that they know that
they are hoaxes.
But the bodies are
going to remain,
and that's what is important.
That is the reason,
right now, what
really bothers me is that we
could lose these bodies if they
are not well preserved.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>MAUSSAN: Because
at this moment,
they are really getting fungus.
They are being affected
by being outside,
and nobody's doing anything.
And I want to attract the
attention of the world
to preserve these
bodies, whatever they
are, because they could
have answers from the past
to the future.
>>NOORY: Is he
concerned that somebody
may try to steal these
mummies from him?
>>MAUSSAN: I don't think
so, because they are well
hidden until now.
I think he's concerned that
he's going to lose them,
and I hope he's
going to lose them.
I hope these
mummies will go back
to Nazca, to the Nazca people.
I hope one day they will
build a museum in Nazca
to preserve them and to
show them to the world.
I think that they deserve this,
and this is what should happen.
Unfortunately, the
government from Peru
is not putting attention.
It's not listening
to all these voices
that are claiming to
have these bodies back.
>>NOORY: Oh, they will,
when the time comes.
>>MAUSSAN: I hope, but I hope
the bodies will be preserved.
If they are not preserved,
when the time comes--
>>NOORY: It's too late.
>>MAUSSAN: --probably
it's going to be too late.
>>NOORY: It could be too late.
And what could DNA
results determine?
>>MAUSSAN: They could determine
that they are different.
They are-- one of them is going
to be completely different.
The small ones are going
The small ones are
going to be reptilians.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>MAUSSAN: No
question about that.
At that moment, I
would like to compare
how they are to the
reptilians on Earth,
or to probably
dinosaurs, or something
very far away from us.
>>NOORY: Uh-huh.
>>MAUSSAN: The other is
going to be very, very close.
But I want to see
how close it is.
I mean, if it has these features
from Homo habilis, it's human,
but at the same time it's
not human and could be
related to the past of humans.
I hope to find
many, many answers.
>>NOORY: What do these doctors
who have looked at the species
say right now?
I mean, are they baffled?
>>MAUSSAN: All the
people who have
looked directly to these
bodies, yes, they are baffled.
The people who
doesn't know anything,
and they don't have the bodies,
and they don't have anything,
they are, you know,
this has to be a hoax.
And that's a real problem.
We want to attract the
attention of the real experts
to come close to the
bodies, because we
know that when they come
close to the bodies,
they will believe
this is probably
the most important finding in
the history of human beings.
>>NOORY: How disappointed will
you be if the results come back
and they merely say these
creatures are human,
they're deformed, or
something like that?
>>MAUSSAN: I don't think
it's going to happen,
but I would be disappointed.
But that wouldn't matter.
We have to tell the truth.
If that is the
truth, it's truth.
If I have to say I was
wrong, I will say I am wrong.
In the case of
Mexico, I never said
I was wrong, because I
don't believe I was wrong.
At this moment,
with these species,
two different species,
until this moment,
I believe we are right.
But again, if the
results say otherwise,
then I would have to accept
it and continue my life.
>>NOORY: Will this stop
your other investigations,
regardless of the results?
>>MAUSSAN: No, what could
have stopped the other
of my investigations is this--
we have the physical evidence.
If we are not--
if we know, when the
DNA comes, and we
understand that these
are nonhumans and so on.
If we will lose
this one being real,
then there is no
reason for anyone
to continue in this kind
of field or investigation.
>>NOORY: Except
that one day, Jaime,
you may find something
and discover something
that could be real as well.
>>MAUSSAN: This is it.
>>NOORY: Why stop?
>>MAUSSAN: This is it,
because this is it,
because I am convinced.
It's going to be very
difficult that the DNA comes
in a different way
that I'm expecting.
>>NOORY: So you are banking
your journalistic career
on this discovery in terms
of what you think it is.
>>MAUSSAN: Yes, I
am, and I don't care.
I think when you believe in
something, you have to risk.
You have to have the courage.
You have to stand.
You know, when everybody
told me in the Mexico case,
oh, Jaime, just retire.
Say that you were wrong.
No, because I really
believed this was real.
And now, I really
believe this is real.
Otherwise, I wouldn't
get involved.
This is not a competition.
It's the truth.
It's the truth for humanity.
It's the truth for the future.
It's the truth for our kids.
That's what really matters.
They've been lying to
us for so many years.
Now we have the chance,
because for the first time,
humanity has this
kind of evidence.
In the past, just the
military, the governments,
and everybody else
have kept the evidence.
This time, the civilians,
us, we have the evidence.
And we have to
prove finally what
really happened in the
past of the human beings.
>>NOORY: I hope we
get these answers,
because they could just
revolutionize who we are--
>>MAUSSAN: We need
these answers.
>>NOORY: --as a species.
>>MAUSSAN: Think about it.
Think about this world.
Think about what is happening.
Think how this news
could change everything.
And we need it.
We need to change.
We need a new beginning,
and this is here.
Please give us a chance.
Please be fair to this case.
Please be objective to this
case, not just discredit.
The people in the United
States is very fair.
Now, this is the chance.
I-- please ask the scientists.
Please, I ask the universities.
Please, I ask the people
who has the credentials
to investigate this, to do it,
because this is the chance we
have to make a new humanity.
And it is right here,
and it is right now.
>>NOORY: Could be
one of the greatest
discoveries of all mankind.
>>MAUSSAN: It is.
It is the greatest
discovery of humans.
And we have this
chance right now.
Or we can discredit this,
and we put it in the trash
and forget about it.
The big loser here
would be the truth.
>>NOORY: Keep fighting, Jaime.
>>MAUSSAN: --not Jaime
Maussan, but the truth.
>>NOORY: Keep fighting.
>>MAUSSAN: I will.
>>NOORY: What an amazing story.
What a great discovery
in a cave in Peru,
these creatures that
you've just seen.
We'll get the results.
Gaia will pass them
on to you, and then we
will move on from there.
I'm George Noory, and thanks
for watching this edition
of "Beyond Belief."
[THEME MUSIC]